README.md, before:

# Remote UART library: uartremote.py

This is a library for robust, near real-time communication between two UART devices. We developed it with LEGO EV3, SPIKE Prime and other MicroPython (ESP) modules. The library has the following properties:
- It is fast enough to read sensor data at 30-50Hz.
- It is fully symmetrical, so master and slave can have the same import.
- It includes a RAW REPL mode to upload code to a slave module. This means you can develop code for both modules in one file.
- It is implemented in MicroPython and Arduino/C code. With arduino code, much higher sensor reading speeds are possible, but flashing is a bit less user friendly.
- The library has a command loop to wait and listen for calls. That loop is customizable and non-blocking so you can add your own code to it.
- The C-struct-like encoding is included in the payload, so the other side always knows how to decode it.

Usage: you can use all of parts of this library for your own projects. Please give us credits at least. We put a lot spare time in this. You are also welcome to contribute. Please fork and PR.

## Micropython

Uniform library that works on standard MicroPython platforms, the EV3 and the Spike. See [example code and usage in the MicroPython subdirectory](MicroPython/README.md).

## Arduino

The same UartRemote library is also implemented for [Arduino](https://github.com/antonvh/UartRemote/tree/master/Arduino/UartRemote).

# Installation
## ESP8266
Copy the [compiled library](Libraries/UartRemote/MicroPython/ESP8266) to the board with webREPL

## SPIKE Prime and Robot Inventor
Copy the [installer script](Libraries/UartRemote/MicroPython/SPIKE/install_uartremote.py) in an empty project inside the LEGO software and run the script ones. You can discard the script afterwards. Alternativly you can use the following ESP32 example with rshell as well...

## ESP32/STM32
Copy the plain python file or the compiled library over...

- You can get rshell via `pip3 install rshell`
- If you have a single device this will connect: `rshell -p $(ls /dev/tty.usb*) -b 115200 --editor nano`
  - othereise with `ls /dev/tty.usb*` 
  - use your desired modem/serial `rshell -p /dev/tty.usbserial-141230 -b 115200 --editor nano`
- Your device is now mounted in rshell> as /pyboard
  - To copy the library, do this (now in rshell>): `cp Libraries/UartRemote/MicroPython/uartremote.py /pyboard/`

Alternativly you can use some IDE's for GUI File managment, such as [ThonnyIDE](https://thonny.org) (win/osx/raspi) or [Mu IDE](https://codewith.mu)

You can edit /pyboard/boot.py while you're at it, to configure your.. [wifi connection!](https://antonsmindstorms.com/?s=wifi)


# Use cases
## Connecting a micropython AI/Computer vision camera to a robotic platform
On the camera you can use code like this:
```python
from uartremote import *

ur = UartRemote()

while(True):
    img = sensor.snapshot()
    # Your image processing and manipulation code goes here...
    blob_location = [12,24]

    if ur.available(): # Some bytes have come in over serial
        command, value = ur.receive_command()
        if command == 'blob':
            ur.ack_ok(command, blob_location)
```

On the robot your code looks like this:
```python
from projects.uartremote import *

ur = UartRemote('E')

while True:
    ack, payload = ur.call('blob')
    if ack == 'bloback': # Original command + 'ack'
        # payload is a python list object, like the one you sent on the other side
        blob_location = payload 
        # Do something with robot motors
    else:
        # Unexpected thinges happened. Stop.
        print(ack, payload)
        port.A.motor.pwm(0)
        port.B.motor.pwm(0)
```

## Executing code on a separate hardware slave device
On the master robot, your code looks like this
```python
from projects.uartremote import *

ur = UartRemote('F')

while True:
    r += 1
    r = r % 360
    ur.call('set_color', 'i', r) # Encode as a struct.pack 'i' integer type.
    ack, fps = ur.call('get_fps')
    print("Running at {}fps on the ESP8266 board".format(fps))
```

On the slave esp8266 board, your code looks like this
```python
from uartremote import *
from neopixel import NeoPixel
from pixelhelpers import hsl_to_rgb

# Init
ur = UartRemote()
np = NeoPixel(machine.Pin(4), 12)

fps= 0
def get_fps():
    global fps
    return fps

color = (255,0,0)
def set_color(hue):
    global color
    color = hsl_to_rgb(hue, 1.0, 0.5)

# Register commands for remote calling
# You only need a format string for outgoing data
ur.add_command(get_fps,'f')
ur.add_command(set_color)

while True:
    start = utime.ticks_ms()
    try:
        np.fill(color)
        ur.process_uart()
    except KeyboardInterrupt:
        ur.enable_repl_locally()
        raise
    except: # The show must go on
        ur.flush()
    duration = utime.ticks_diff(utime.ticks_ms(), start)
    fps = 1000/duration
```

# Packet format
When a command with its accompanying values is transmitted over the Uart, the following packet format is used:

|delimiter|total len|command len|command|format len| format| data|delimiter|
|---------|---------|-----------|-------|----------|-------|-----|---------|
| `<`      |  `ln`   | `lc`    | `cmd` | `lf`    | `f` | binary data | `>`|

with
- `ln` the length of the total packet encoded as a single byte,
- `lc` the length of the command string `<cmd>` as a single byte,
- `cmd` the command specified as a string,
- `lf` the length of the format string
- `f` the Format encapsulation to pack the values; This can be `repr` for encapsulating arbitrary objects, `raw` for no encapsulation, or a Python struct format string.
- `data` a number of values encapsulated according to `f`.

When the method

`ur.send_command('test','repr',[1,2,3,4,5])`
is used, the following packet will be transmitted over the line:

```b'<b'\x1c\x04test\x04repr([1, 2, 3, 4, 5],)>'```

## Format Option 1: python struct.pack
This option interpretes the Format string `f` as the format string of the `struct.pack/unpack` method (see https://docs.python.org/3/library/struct.html), for example 

```send_command('test_struct','3b3s1f',1,2,3,"ale",1.3)```.

This is the fastest method (1ms) but is limited to c-types, like int, unsigned int etc...

## Format Option 2: repr/pickle
This uses the string representation of data, `repr()` to encode it. Then `eval()` is used on the receiving end.

`ur.encode('test_command', 'repr', [[1,2],[3,4]])`

will be encoded as:

`b'%\x0ctest_command\x04repr([[1, 2], [3, 4]],)'`

Here's the power of repr:

`ur.encode('test_command','repr',[[1,2],[3,str],[len,True],[2+3]])`

becomes

`b"W\x0ctest_command\x04repr([[1, 2], [3, <class 'str'>], [<built-in function len>, True], [5]],)"`

This is slower (7ms) and incompatible with Arduino but it is more flexible.

## Format Option 3: raw bytes
This is the fastest option of all, but you'll have to do your own decoding/encoding.

`ur.encode('test_command','raw',b'abcd')`

is encoded as:

`b'\x15\x0ctest_command\x03rawabcd'`

# To do, roadmap
- Add wireless networking using sockets, rfcomm, ble etc...
- Add python3 support for laptops/desktops

Commit message:

directory cleanup
the pip file was a default config template changed the architecture file to more appropriate examples

README.md, after:

# Remote UART library: uartremote.py

This is a library for robust, near real-time communication between two UART devices. We developed it on python 3.9 with LEGO EV3, SPIKE Prime and other MicroPython (ESP/STM32) modules. The library has the following properties:
- It is fast enough to read sensor data at 30-50Hz.
- It is fully symmetrical, so master and slave can have the same import.
- It includes a RAW REPL mode to upload code to a slave module. This means you can develop code for both modules in one file.
- It is implemented in MicroPython and Arduino/C code. With arduino code, much higher sensor reading speeds are possible, but flashing is a bit less user friendly.
- The library has a command loop to wait and listen for calls. That loop is customizable and non-blocking so you can add your own code to it.
- The C-struct-like encoding is included in the payload, so the other side always knows how to decode it.

Usage: you can use all of parts of this library for your own projects. Please give us credits at least. We put a lot spare time in this. You are also welcome to contribute. Please fork and PR.

## Micropython

Uniform library that works on standard MicroPython platforms, the EV3 and the Spike. See [example code and usage in the MicroPython subdirectory](MicroPython/README.md).

## Arduino

The same UartRemote library is also implemented for [Arduino](https://github.com/antonvh/UartRemote/tree/master/Arduino/UartRemote).

# Installation
## ESP8266
Copy the [compiled library](Libraries/UartRemote/MicroPython/ESP8266) to the board with webREPL

## SPIKE Prime and Robot Inventor
Copy the [installer script](Libraries/UartRemote/MicroPython/SPIKE/install_uartremote.py) in an empty project inside the LEGO software and run the script ones. You can discard the script afterwards. Alternativly you can use the following ESP32 example with rshell as well...

## ESP32/STM32
Copy the plain python file or the compiled library over...

- You can get rshell via `pip3 install rshell`
- If you have a single device this will connect: `rshell -p $(ls /dev/tty.usb*) -b 115200 --editor nano`
  - othereise with `ls /dev/tty.usb*` 
  - use your desired modem/serial `rshell -p /dev/tty.usbserial-141230 -b 115200 --editor nano`
- Your device is now mounted in rshell> as /pyboard
  - To copy the library, do this (now in rshell>): `cp Libraries/UartRemote/MicroPython/uartremote.py /pyboard/`

Alternativly you can use some IDE's for GUI File managment, such as [ThonnyIDE](https://thonny.org) (win/osx/raspi) or [Mu IDE](https://codewith.mu)

You can edit /pyboard/boot.py while you're at it, to configure your.. [wifi connection!](https://antonsmindstorms.com/?s=wifi)


# Use cases
For more examples see [example_scripts.py](example_scripts.py)

## Connecting a micropython AI/Computer vision camera to a robotic platform
On the camera you can use code like this:
```python
from uartremote import *

ur = UartRemote()

while(True):
    img = sensor.snapshot()
    # Your image processing and manipulation code goes here...
    blob_location = [12,24]

    if ur.available(): # Some bytes have come in over serial
        command, value = ur.receive_command()
        if command == 'blob':
            ur.ack_ok(command, blob_location)
```

On the robot your code looks like this:
```python
from projects.uartremote import *

ur = UartRemote('E')

while True:
    ack, payload = ur.call('blob')
    if ack == 'bloback': # Original command + 'ack'
        # payload is a python list object, like the one you sent on the other side
        blob_location = payload 
        # Do something with robot motors
    else:
        # Unexpected thinges happened. Stop.
        print(ack, payload)
        port.A.motor.pwm(0)
        port.B.motor.pwm(0)
```

## Executing code on a separate hardware slave device
On the master robot, your code looks like this
```python
from projects.uartremote import *

ur = UartRemote('F')

while True:
    r += 1
    r = r % 360
    ur.call('set_color', 'i', r) # Encode as a struct.pack 'i' integer type.
    ack, fps = ur.call('get_fps')
    print("Running at {}fps on the ESP8266 board".format(fps))
```

On the slave esp8266 board, your code looks like this
```python
from uartremote import *
from neopixel import NeoPixel
from pixelhelpers import hsl_to_rgb

# Init
ur = UartRemote()
np = NeoPixel(machine.Pin(4), 12)

fps= 0
def get_fps():
    global fps
    return fps

color = (255,0,0)
def set_color(hue):
    global color
    color = hsl_to_rgb(hue, 1.0, 0.5)

# Register commands for remote calling
# You only need a format string for outgoing data
ur.add_command(get_fps,'f')
ur.add_command(set_color)

while True:
    start = utime.ticks_ms()
    try:
        np.fill(color)
        ur.process_uart()
    except KeyboardInterrupt:
        ur.enable_repl_locally()
        raise
    except: # The show must go on
        ur.flush()
    duration = utime.ticks_diff(utime.ticks_ms(), start)
    fps = 1000/duration
```

# Packet format
When a command with its accompanying values is transmitted over the Uart, the following packet format is used:

|delimiter|total len|command len|command|format len| format| data|delimiter|
|---------|---------|-----------|-------|----------|-------|-----|---------|
| `<`      |  `ln`   | `lc`    | `cmd` | `lf`    | `f` | binary data | `>`|

with
- `ln` the length of the total packet encoded as a single byte,
- `lc` the length of the command string `<cmd>` as a single byte,
- `cmd` the command specified as a string,
- `lf` the length of the format string
- `f` the Format encapsulation to pack the values; This can be `repr` for encapsulating arbitrary objects, `raw` for no encapsulation, or a Python struct format string.
- `data` a number of values encapsulated according to `f`.

When the method

`ur.send_command('test','repr',[1,2,3,4,5])`
is used, the following packet will be transmitted over the line:

```b'<b'\x1c\x04test\x04repr([1, 2, 3, 4, 5],)>'```

## Format Option 1: python struct.pack
This option interpretes the Format string `f` as the format string of the `struct.pack/unpack` method (see https://docs.python.org/3/library/struct.html), for example 

```send_command('test_struct','3b3s1f',1,2,3,"ale",1.3)```.

This is the fastest method (1ms) but is limited to c-types, like int, unsigned int etc...

## Format Option 2: repr/pickle
This uses the string representation of data, `repr()` to encode it. Then `eval()` is used on the receiving end.

`ur.encode('test_command', 'repr', [[1,2],[3,4]])`

will be encoded as:

`b'%\x0ctest_command\x04repr([[1, 2], [3, 4]],)'`

Here's the power of repr:

`ur.encode('test_command','repr',[[1,2],[3,str],[len,True],[2+3]])`

becomes

`b"W\x0ctest_command\x04repr([[1, 2], [3, <class 'str'>], [<built-in function len>, True], [5]],)"`

This is slower (7ms) and incompatible with Arduino but it is more flexible.

## Format Option 3: raw bytes
This is the fastest option of all, but you'll have to do your own decoding/encoding.

`ur.encode('test_command','raw',b'abcd')`

is encoded as:

`b'\x15\x0ctest_command\x03rawabcd'`

# To do, roadmap
- Add wireless networking using sockets, rfcomm, ble etc...
- Add python3 support for laptops/desktops
